Vietnam, Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Greetings to all fellow devotees of
Hai Nhan commune during the Vu Lan festival of filial piety.
We send our best wishes to all fellow
devotees and friends for a peaceful and happy Vu Lan season
with
your parents, and for doing many things to bring
joy and happiness to your parents, helping them to
progress on the path of
Buddhism. Today, we
would like to share with you a
question from a young person.
The question is as follows: "Hello,
Auntie. I have a close friend
whose parents recently passed away suddenly.
My friend blames herself for
many unfulfilled promises,
such as taking her mother on a trip, buying her gifts, or
simply spending a day or two off
talking to her mother.
But work keeps her
busy, and she only remembers to talk to her mother later.
This prevents her
from taking care of her mother, and now she has
so much regret. Many of
her experiences have made me think. I
feel very fortunate to still have both
parents."  I still have the opportunity to show filial
piety to my
aunt and uncle. I think I'm not
alone in this, but it could be the case for
many people. We often
plan to do many things for our parents, but
always wait for a suitable time
and specific conditions to do them.
Another Vu Lan season has come, and I sincerely hope that
you will guide those of us who are fortunate enough to still have our
parents on how to practice
filial piety so that no one has to regret the
things they didn't get to do. I express my
gratitude to you, Auntie. Respectfully,
dear fellow practitioners, the
Vu Lan Festival music
in July has become familiar
to the Vietnamese people.
Usually in July,
people think about showing filial
piety and praying for the souls of their ancestors.
Fewer practitioners think about showing
filial piety to their living parents during
this Vu Lan Festival.
But with the spirit of Buddhism, the
Vu Lan Festival is also an opportunity for us to show filial piety
to our parents who are still
alive,
in a fortunate connection
with the Dharma.
Dear fellow practitioners, showing filial piety
to parents is a very important part of
Vietnamese culture.  For
example, we need to take care of our parents, providing
them with food, clothing, and outings.
We do all of these things year-round
for the benefit of our fellow practitioners.
However, this July, there's
something different: we haven't increased our self-
giving yet, so we're a little different.
So, the Mind-Hiding Meditation will share with you, fellow
practitioners, about showing filial piety to our
parents on the 15th day of the 7th lunar month while they are still alive.
Dear fellow practitioners, in many lifetimes, our parents may have lived as humans, perhaps as
kings or
officials.
Yes, many lifetimes they may have lived in heaven,
very happy and joyful.
But
when our parents come to us in
this life,
we see that they may not necessarily
be happy, may
not necessarily be at peace.
Because our parents still suffer from illness and
disease, and we need the support of fellow
practitioners,
even if it's money to provide for their food and drink. Let's just
say we need the support of fellow practitioners to
complete these tasks.  Firstly, as you
said, you should regret not taking your parents
on trips, buying them gifts,
taking care of them, and
feeding them meat. There are things you can never
do, like the pain your parents are suffering.
You can't replace them, can you? It's irreplaceable. There are spiritual paths that help us cope with the
suffering and illness of our parents. We
can only buy medicine and care for them,
but we can't replace their pain. It's the same
with spiritual paths;
no one can replace us in that.
Therefore, there are
things we absolutely cannot do
for our parents—absolutely the
pain they endure due to birth,
old age, sickness, and death. We can never
use money, time, or
anything else in this world to
show filial piety to
our parents, to alleviate their
suffering.
Because the pain and suffering of birth,
old age, sickness, and death that our
parents endure is due to
their karmic forces.  The transformation of
karma can only be achieved when parents take
refuge in the Three Jewels and have merit
in the Three Jewels. The Buddha taught that
on the 15th day of the 7th lunar month each year, during the summer before the monks complete their self-cultivation and end their karmic cycle, filial
children should offer alms to the monks and dedicate the merit to their
parents, so that their parents may be
healthy and live longer, thus
reducing their negative karma and alleviating their suffering. This is because of the
negative karma of illness, the suffering
caused by afflictions such as unfilial children, discord among siblings, and
disharmony in the neighborhood. Karma is
very powerful; it influences many things,
stemming from the karmic consequences created by the parents.
The Buddha taught us that during the
7th lunar month, during the
self-cultivation and end of the Vu Lan season, we should offer alms to the Three Jewels and dedicate the
merit to
our parents so that their karma can be transformed and they may
find peace and happiness.
Yes, that is what we should do
during this Vu Lan filial piety season, following the path of
filial piety. And what about
the matter of eating and drinking?  Natural rest and sleep
should be something we do
year-round, not just during the Vu Lan festival. Since
we are at home, we
must, according to
our
circumstances, send our parents our
care and love. And regarding
the world, the mind of the Venerable Hoan Quan sees it this way: "
Why is it so precious
when our parents are like
us?
When some parents demand
money from their children,
open your hearts to them. Parents,
who have time for this? Your joy and happiness lie
in your children's happiness, in their
growth, in their peace. The path of
life promises to bring you joy, happiness, and
positivity. Your parents see you
overcome all the obstacles in
life, they see you stand firm in
this world, and your parents
find peace and tranquility without
worry. Therefore, dear friends,
grow up, live with
ambition. Live strongly, live virtuously;
that is the joy of your parents for a long time.
Respectfully, dear friends, the mind of the Venerable Hoan Quan
is also a mother, also a person."
Buddhist followers, regarding their children,
if they are peaceful, it
means they feel joyful. If they face any difficulties
in life and their attitude is
beyond their usual calm, they also feel
joyful. But if they
foresee life's storms and become frightened and confused, then
they worry, they are very
worried, they fear their child will not be safe, and they will
not be able to eat and live comfortably. Therefore, they should focus on cultivating a peaceful
mind. They should also
focus on the Dharma,
recognizing life, facing the present, and
overcoming the present in any circumstance. That
is how they bring lasting joy
to their parents in
fulfilling their filial duty in
this worldly life. Therefore, they must be strong and
focus on the Dharma. I send this message to all
young people: you must live positively,
sow good karma so that you can
stand firm and overcome life's storms.
Do not get involved in
things that corrupt morality and put
you in danger.
Then your parents will...  Peace and happiness are the
ways you can best repay your filial piety in this world,
transcending the
realms of money and worldly affairs.
For example, if you're working as a
hired killer to bring money
to your parents, they're certainly unhappy because they
'll always feel surrounded
by fear that you
'll be caught or killed, right? It's
not that your parents like money.
But if you are peaceful and secure,
you stand firm in life. If you
live virtuously, you overcome the storms of
life, and whatever money you give your mother,
whatever things you buy for her, she'll be
happy. Choosing to give your mother money means she has
no worries at all.
Here, I'm sharing with you all that
we repay our filial piety to our parents year-round.
Yes, you must live like that. I
live with Buddhist teachings, understand karma, do
good deeds, face myself, and
overcome all the storms of life in a
positive way.
I'm always a support for my father.  My friends, you should do this
all year round to bring
happiness to your parents. During the
Vu Lan season, take refuge in the Three Jewels,
creating blessings and dedicating them to your
parents, praying that they may enter the
ocean of Buddhist teachings, abandoning
evil and doing good, thus receiving good karma. This
is how we show filial piety all year round and
during the Vu Lan season.
May you all, young people,
have the
most accurate understanding of filial piety and
practice diligently. May
you and your parents always be happy and
peaceful together, becoming
spiritual friends so that you may meet again in this life and many lives to come.
May you
diligently study Buddhist teachings so that you can repay
your parents' kindness in the best way possible,
leading them to the shore of
liberation. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
[Music] um um um um